In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the Property class?

In console.rb by "newing up" using Property.new.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby Property object into the database?

 In properties.sql.

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

Property.delete_all()

property1.save()

property2.save()

property3.save()

property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a Property object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

Database itself handles that, you don't want to be responsible for assigning and keeping track of entries' ids manually.
It is being assigned in properties.sql by calling sql command "id SERIAL4 PRIMARY KEY".

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby Property object?

In property.rb by calling "@id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']" in initialize function.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an if clause) on the @id attribute in the constructor?

When we create a new ruby object of the property class we don't want id to be assigned, it's going to happen later when saving to a database. Only when reading back from database objects will have ids, and this is when we assign them to ruby objects.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Instance methods act on single object of the property class where class methods act on all of them.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to db.exec_prepared()? In the save method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It's hash data structure.
We access the id by referencing first object of the hash and the value of its "id":
@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"]

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

To avoid sql injection attack.

Look at the find_by_id and find_by_address methods in the Property class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

"id" and "address"

Q11. What are their return values?

They return whole objects (instances) of a class in a form of hash.
